src/pages/articles/brochure-case-study.mdx, before:

---
layout: '../../layouts/Article.astro'
title: 'Increasing brochure sign-ups with AB testing'
description: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet'
pubDate: 'Apr 11 2022'
heroImage: '/placeholder-social.jpg'
---

An online form to view or order up to three complimentary brochures for delivery.

## Challenge
Design and validate a new layout for a brochure request web page for an escorted group touring company.

## Contributions
As the sole designer on this project, I worked within a small marketing team to code and test an alternate form layout and alternative success message.

Google Analytics
Data analysis
Hotjar
Adobe Target
VS Code
User testing

## Approach
My process is to discover, define, build, measure, repeat. Existing data, customer feedback and their behaviour help to inform how I can optimise online conversion and experiences. Ideas are prioritised through a scoring system based on business demand, impact, ease, traffic and supporting research. Improvements to the digital channels are continuously insight-driven, even after creation or implementation.

**Context**

Existing usage data, as well as customer feedback, were available for analysis. Hotjar was used to view session recording. The main aims were to improve ease of use and increase order conversion rate through the validation of ideas.

**Observation**

Based on observations, I theorised that by changing the layout from a list to a grid, using checkbox selections on images and including the form fields on the same page rather than an extra step, we'd increase request rates.

**Initial ideas**

Layout changes of the brochure request page to improve ease of use. The positioning of brochures as a grid makes more brochures visible on desktop devices and raises up the form closer to the page fold.

**Testing**

With a confidence of 99% and an uplift of 25% in brochure orders, variant B won after 4 weeks. A case was raised with web developers and changes were soon implemented.

## Going forward
Later changes to the existing form included disabling the submit button until a brochure had been selected. It was realised that there can still be confusion due to the lack of effective form validation text and due to the brochure selection resetting.

As part of a website rebuild, I designed the brochure request page again. I knew there were still some improvements to be made. I used the stylisation provided by a UI designer that I closely worked with so that the design was in keeping with the rest of the website and brand guidelines.

The use of checkboxes was maintained but placed as components alongside a form in a sidebar. Elevating the form fields further would reduce scroll depth and clarify to the visitor the actions they are expected to complete.

## User testing
Through user testing, it was confirmed that the changes made were convenient, enjoyable and significant. As a whole, those that were interviewed commented that the look and functionality is less confusing than before.

Commit message:

Major styling updates to home and article pages

src/pages/articles/brochure-case-study.mdx, after:

---
layout: '../../layouts/Article.astro'
title: 'Uplift in sign-ups with A/B testing'
description: 'Increased brochure sign-ups by 25% through split testing and user-centered design updates on a brochure request web page'
pubDate: 'Apr 11 2022'
heroImage: '/img/Brochure-header.png'
---

An online form to view or order up to three complimentary brochures for delivery.

## Challenge
Design and validate a new layout for a brochure request web page for an escorted group touring company.

## Contributions
As the sole designer on this project, I worked within a small marketing team to code and test an alternate form layout and alternative success message.

__Systems used__: Google Analytics, Data analysis, Hotjar, Adobe Target, VS Code, User testing

## Approach
My process is to discover, define, build, measure, repeat. Existing data, customer feedback and their behaviour help to inform how I can optimise online conversion and experiences. Ideas are prioritised through a scoring system based on business demand, impact, ease, traffic and supporting research. Improvements to the digital channels are continuously insight-driven, even after creation or implementation.

![the data led design and testing process](/img/Brochure-process.png)

**Context**

Existing usage data, as well as customer feedback, were available for analysis. Hotjar was used to view session recording. The main aims were to improve ease of use and increase order conversion rate through the validation of ideas.

![original view of the brochure request page](/img/Brochure-context.png)

**Observation**

Based on observations, I theorised that by changing the layout from a list to a grid, using checkbox selections on images and including the form fields on the same page rather than an extra step, we'd increase request rates.

![an example of the proposed grid layout and checkbox](/img/Brochure-observation.png)

**Initial ideas**

Layout changes of the brochure request page to improve ease of use. The positioning of brochures as a grid makes more brochures visible on desktop devices and raises up the form closer to the page fold.

![initial concepts showing a grid layout for brochures](/img/Brochure-initial-ideas.png)

**Testing**

With a confidence of 99% and an uplift of 25% in brochure orders, variant B won after 4 weeks. A case was raised with web developers and changes were soon implemented.

![test results showed a 25% increase in brochure requests](/img/Brochure-testing.png)

## Going forward
Later changes to the existing form included disabling the submit button until a brochure had been selected. It was realised that there can still be confusion due to the lack of effective form validation text and due to the brochure selection resetting.

As part of a website rebuild, I designed the brochure request page again. I knew there were still some improvements to be made. I used the stylisation provided by a UI designer that I closely worked with so that the design was in keeping with the rest of the website and brand guidelines.

The use of checkboxes was maintained but placed as components alongside a form in a sidebar. Elevating the form fields further would reduce scroll depth and clarify to the visitor the actions they are expected to complete.

![view of the redesigned brochure request page](/img/Brochure-results.png)

## User testing
Through user testing, it was confirmed that the changes made were convenient, enjoyable and significant. As a whole, those that were interviewed commented that the look and functionality is less confusing than before.

![the redesigned thank you page of the brochure request process](/img/Brochure-results-2.png)
